##F# support for Vim (fsharpbindings-vim)

Syntax and indent files have been copied from [fsharp-vim](http://github.com/kongo2002/fsharp-vim) with kind permissions from [kongo2002](https://github.com/kongo2002).

> Requires vim 7.3 or higher compiled with python support.

This software is still alpha quality and was adapted from http://github.com/timrobinson/fsharp-vim. The current aim is to provide a good experience for fsx scripting. On opening an fs or fsi file any project file found in the same directory will be parsed. Multiple projects are supported.

###Installing

fsharpbinding-vim requires mono and fsharp installed. To build and install you will need to be able to xbuild any .fsproj file. 

#####OSX and linux

1. Install [pathogen][pathogen] and [syntastic][syntastic]

2. Run *make install* inside the vim directory. This will copy the necessary contents to your ~/.vim/bundle directory.

#####Windows

1. Install [pathogen][pathogen] and [syntastic][syntastic]

2. Run _install.cmd_ 

3. Currently you will most likely need to set g:fsharp_xbuild_path and g:fsharp_interactive_bin to approapriate values. 

#####Syntastic

The fsharpbindings for vim utilize the [syntastic][syntastic] plugin in order to
supply interactive syntax and type checking. You may want to install that plugin
in order to get all of the fsharpbindings functionality.

Moreover you benefit from additional [syntastic][syntastic] features like
optional integration in your status bar (i.e. [vim-airline][airline]).

All you have to do is to install [syntastic][syntastic] in your vim runtime path.

###Usage

Opening either `*.fs`, `*.fsi` or `*.fsx` files should trigger syntax highlighting and other depending runtime files as well.

Omnicomplete triggers the fsharp autocomplete process. (suggestion: install [supertab](https://github.com/ervandew/supertab))

###Commands

#####General
* `:make` Calls xbuild on the fsproj for the current file (if any).
* `:ParseProject` Reparses all the project files and dependencies (this is done automatically when opening a .fs or .fsi file).
* `:BuildProject` Calls xbuild on the fsproj for the current file (if any). Can also take a path to the proj file to build.
* `:RunProject` Runs the project for the current file (if any). 
* `:RunTests` If `g:fsharp_test_runner` is set it will build the current project and run any tests. (Currently only tested with nunit-console.exe)
* `leader<t>` Echoes the type of the expression currently pointed to by the cursor.
* `leader<d>` _go to declaration_ in current window. 
* `leader<s>` Takes you back from where _go to declaration_ was triggered.

#####FSharp Interactive
* `:FsiEval` Evaluates an fsharp expression in the fsi 
* `:FsiReset` Resets the current fsharp interactive
* `:FsiRead` Outputs any lines written by the fsi but not yet output as vim messages 
* `:FsiShow` Opens the _fsi-out_ buffer in a split window. 
* `Alt-Enter` Send either the current selection or the current line to the fsharp interactive and echoes the output the first line of the output. All output will be written to the _fsi-out_ buffer.
* `leader<i>` Same as Alt-Enter

###On-the-fly syntax checking

> Interactive syntax/type checking requires vim 7.4 or higher and [syntastic][syntastic]

By default your F# files will be syntax/type checked on every open/save of a vim buffer as well as after 500ms of inactivity in Normal mode.  
In case you would prefer not to have you errors checked continuously add the following to your vimrc:

~~~.vim
let g:fsharp_only_check_errors_on_write = 1
~~~

###Settings

You can enable *debug-mode* in order to inspect the fsautocomplete behavior by
setting the global vim variable `g:fsharpbinding_debug` to a non-zero value:

~~~.vim
let g:fsharpbinding_debug = 1
~~~

This will create two log files `log.txt` and `log2.txt` in your temporary folder
(i.e. `/tmp/`).

You can set the msbuild/xbuild path. On windows it is very likely you need to do this unless msbuild is in your path.

~~~.vim
let g:fsharp_xbuild_path = "/path/to/xbuild/or/msbuild"
~~~

This setting needs to point to a suitable test runner (such as nunit-console.exe)

~~~.vim
let g:fsharp_test_runner = "/path/to/test/runner"
~~~

[syntastic]: https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic
[airline]: https://github.com/bling/vim-airline
[pathogen]: https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen
